The Joe Rogan experience.
And there's no like predicting who's gonna get it.
And who's not like there are people who go in and out of recovery and then one
day it clicks mm-hmm <affirmative>. Um,
my dad was like quitting stuff from my whole life and, and,
and eventually got sober in jail when I was 12 and was sober for
the rest of my life.
He was sober for the next 12 years until he died when I was 24.
And I don't think that anyone ever really expected him to stop drinking,
you know? So it's like worth having hope for people. But also
my mom didn't argue him into finally quit drinking.
I didn't beg him into finally quitting drinking.
Nobody convinced him except for like his own misery of
like losing his family and then being in jail, you know.
You, you used to party hard. Yeah.
Yeah, yeah. <affirmative>.
What made you.
Um, do.
You think it's a genetic thing?
Yeah, I do. I think it's a genetic thing.
I think that they're also can be an environmental component, you know, I,
I know that some things that I liked about it,
where it made me feel comfortable talking to people,
I crowds have always been kind of draining for me, large crowds,
especially if it's like people, I don't know. Um,
and I felt like I could talk to guys for the
first time when I started drinking,
but then I couldn't stop drinking once I started drinking.
So I would be like laid out on a bathroom floor with the guys. I like,
like stepping over me to, to pee, you know,
it just got real. That's how it always went.
I'd feel there'd be like a moment in the night where I was like, oh yeah,
I'm hot <laugh>.
And then I'd have like throw up in my ear and be someone's futon.
So it just was always real, real often.
There was a period of time for like years where I woke up and started drinking
and drank all day and was a blackout drinker every night. Um,
and then I actually had a boyfriend and
I quit drinking for him.
And then I started again and it just was always like,
it always went back to the same place. Like I tried quitting.
I tried quitting every year since I started,
I started drinking pretty much daily when I was 17 and then got sober when I was
29 and haven't had, um, a drink or a drug since,
but my bottom wasn't when I stopped,
when I stopped was just when I was done.
<laugh> mm it's an interesting thing.
But my last drink was actually just like a couple sips of a friend's beer.
And then I just was like, I, I just, something clicked.
And I knew I couldn't do it by myself. And I was willing to accept, help.
I was willing to do anything. I was willing to do whatever it took.
And so, um, I did, I got help. It was free.
What year was this? Around?
Uh, January 21st, 2014. Wow.
Did you know it by the day? It, yeah, that's great. I only have like a,
a other than the birth of my children in my head like that.
I have like this, the day I started comedy, Dan was married. That kind of.
Yeah. But that's a big one.
I don't know when I started comedy and I don't know when you got married,
but that's my, that's my date.
Yeah. I started comedy August 27th, 1988.
And I think back to that day, all the time, because I almost pussied out.
Wow. Yeah, me too. Do you almost pus it out? Yeah. What happened with.
You? I, um, called yeah, I,
you had to call the comedy club ahead of time to ask for which common club for a
spot, the comedy cafe of Milwaukee. I don't think it's with us any longer.
I think it has passed away, but, um, yeah, you,
you called ahead of time to get a spot on the open mic and then you could do a
set for five to seven minutes.
And so I like typed my set out word for word on a computer,
practiced it in front of a full length mirror a million times, um,
and wanted to, but I would've had to like cancel to cancel and I'm not a,
so I did it. And.
You were drinking back then? Yeah.
Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. They, yeah. Um,
yeah, I used to go on stage blackout drunk it,
I would not have any of the success that I have right now if I hadn't stopped
drinking because I would black out. Um, and yeah, I,
I went on and I told my jokes and some of them hid and some of them didn't,
but I got that. I got the fix.
I got that feeling of like telling a joke to a room full of people and having
them laugh at it. And I've been hooked ever since.
How did you remember your material if you're blackout.
Drunk? I wasn't blackout drunk at that moment. Oh, other times.
I don't know. And sometimes I didn't, I mean, I up a lot, you know,
there were times where I like went on stage and I would repeat my jokes that I
had just said. <laugh> um, I would ask my friends, like, how'd my Seco.
And they'd be like, you are faced. You know? <laugh> like, you're drunk.
It looked like you were really drunk, you know? Yeah.
I knew generally if I couldn't remember it,
that it probably wasn't that good generally. Yeah. Generally I'm like,
well, but I mean, that's like the difference between then and now.
And it's like what you were talking about now, if you have an opportunity,
you make the most of it. Now, if I have an opportunity,
I make the most of I show up early,
I'm polite and professional and like nobody Wes their pants and I
maybe get another shot of the thing later. You know,
you get to move on to like the next level onto the next step. Back then,
I remember in Milwaukee,
there was a headliner who thought I was funny and wanted to see if he wanted to
bring me on the road.
And so he got me a feature set at a show, uh, a one,
a one nighter. And, um,
I went and did it and got black out drunk and
don't remember anything he said to me on the ride home.
But I do know he never brought me on the road with him. You know? <laugh> like,
I know I'm not on tour with him right now. <laugh>.
Is he on tour?
I don't know. Oh, I don't know. I don't think I,
I don't think I've spoken to him since <laugh> <laugh>.
Maybe he'll he'll see this. And maybe.
He will. His name was James Ivin Barry. All right. James Irvin, Barry.
He was very nice. I was very drunk. It was not his fault.
I it's a weird thing that genetic propensity for alcoholism,
cuz I've seen it in people where their parents are drunk and they just can't
help it. I've seen it. And some people like to think that it's all willpower,
but I'm not so sure I don't have that thing.
I can have a drink or two and I can not drink for a month. It doesn't bother me,
but I've seen it where like one drink and then they get shark eyes.
It's like point they flip over and they like, you know,
dals you ever look in a Jal's eyes?
Like, no, I never looked in a Jal's eyes. Look in their eyes.
Dead, their dead eyes. Like, uh, like some people,
their eyes just G they black out.
They get glazed over and they're not there anymore. Like,
oh Charles not here anymore. Yeah. Charles is gone. Now this shark boy.
Like his, their eyes just glass.
Over. Yeah. I mean, I was never there when it happened,
but that's exactly how my friends describe me. They'd be like,
I looked at you last night and you, you weren't there.
That's exactly how they describe.
Me.
It's what it seems like when someone's blacked out drunk catch new episodes.
The Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify.
Watch back catalog J E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio, et experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.